Thank you all for coming.
This session is about QuickTime for Java.
We've been in QuickTime's
install since QuickTime 3.
We provide a meeting place for the
two very interesting technologies
in both QuickTime and in Java,
of course.
What I'd like to do is to cover basically
a sort of summation of where we are
with QuickTime for Java currently.
We'd actually like to profile
a couple of products that
are using QuickTime for Java.
If you saw the keynote this morning,
you had the web objects part of that
where they had the movie being shown.
That was using QuickTime for
Java because the runtime environment
for that was actually Java.
So you're seeing the
QuickTime capabilities being activated.
That's very much a part of some
of the uses that developers are
putting QuickTime for Java to.
We'll go over some other
products during the talk.
Then we're going to be posing a question,
Java for QuickTime, Java and QuickTime.
We'll come back to that
Okay, so just in case you're
new to the technology,
I'd like to just give you a very brief
overview of what QuickTime for Java is.
I'm going to call it QtJava now,
it's a little bit less words.
So it's a Java class library
and it provides access from
a Java language environment,
from a Java runtime environment to
the underlying QuickTime engine.
What we decided to do with
this was rather than to
invent a completely new API,
we decided to base the
QuickTime for Java classes on top
of the existing QuickTime C API.
So we use structures that are very
familiar to all of you like movies,
movie controllers, tracks,
media objects and so forth.
And we organize these into a set
of Java packages that correspond
roughly to the way that QuickTime is
distributed in the C headers
because it kind of makes sense.
So you've got movie objects in
tracks and media in movies packages.
You've got sound things in sound package,
sequence grabbers in a sequence package.
And packages in Java are just a way of
sort of breaking down the name space.
It also provides some
additional services.
One of the things we wanted to
do with QuickTime for Java was to
make it easy for Java engineers and
Java developers to use QuickTime in
a very sort of simplified manner.
If you want to make a movie
and put it up in an applet,
then you can do it in a couple of
lines of code rather than having
to write a whole bunch of C code.
And you can actually get started
with QuickTime for Java with very
little knowledge of QuickTime and
just use some kind of helper
classes and some capabilities.
We also wanted to provide some
extended presentation focus on
presenting media in a Java environment.
Giving you sort of programmatic control.
We'll actually go through a
demo that does some of that.
So the current release of
QuickTime for Java is QtJava 4.1.
We just changed the version
number with QuickTime with QtJava.
Originally we were going to version
our releases with the version of the
QuickTime API set that we are matched to,
but we decided to change that
just to document the version
of QuickTime we go out with.
The Qt Java that's in 4.1.1 currently
basically supports the 4.1 APIs that,
sorry, it represents the QuickTime 4
APIs that are in the QuickTime 4
runtime and it will provide 4.1
APIs in the subsequent release.
An important thing to understand
about what that means is the
functionality of QuickTime involves,
evolves in two distinct areas.
The first area that involves is
that you have an API and some
additional capability of QuickTime is
presented to developers and to
programs using an existing API.
If you think of the way that streaming
was incorporated into QuickTime,
for instance you can open a
movie with just giving it a URL.
In QuickTime 3 that was a file.
When QuickTime 4 came about you could
use the same API but you could open up an
HTTP or FTP URL with that same API set.
So even though we may not have 4.1
APIs in the current Qt Java release,
you can still access features of that.
You just don't have API access
to the new features.
And we're going to try and bridge
that gap and basically get to a parity
with that at some point in the future.
Some of the biggest changes
that we made in 4.1 for Qt
Java was to deprecate AWT usage.
Now we're not saying we don't
like AWT or that we're not
going to work in an AWT context,
but what we wanted to do was to make
an explicit statement about where
you're depending on Java AWT classes
and services in your Java application.
Now there's a couple of
reasons why we would do that.
One of them we'll actually discuss a
little bit later on in the session today.
In IBM's website,
they've been developing a very
interesting technology called Direct DOM.
And it is a way for you to author
a complete web page in Java,
very similar to the way that
you do it in JavaScript.
There's a whole set of Java classes that
represent the document object model of
a web page as a set of Java classes.
And those Java classes interact with
the web browser's rendering agent in
the same way that JavaScript does.
But you're in Java and you have all
of the extra capability of a Java VM.
But the really interesting part of this
is that you don't have Java AWT there.
You're not writing an applet.
You're actually authoring using the
JavaScript direct document model objects.
So there's no AWT there.
And we don't really need
AWT and Qt Java as such.
We have some classes that integrate
with Java.AWT and for those of you
who are not familiar with Java,
the AWT is the display packages
abstract windowing toolkit
is what the AWT stands for.
If you're interested in
the Direct DOM technology,
alphaworks.com has an alpha version
of that up on the website and we'll
be contributing to that with some
Qt Java stuff in the near future.
So we also, as part of this migration
away from a dependency on AWT,
we also introduced a new event model.
And we have a QtEvents superclass.
It uses the same listener broadcast model
that Java presents and uses throughout.
We base our event subsystem
on the core event class,
and then the AWT event
system is built off this way.
And we have the same type of model.
We have mouse listeners and so forth.
And we also reworked some of the way that
we allow you to access QuickTime-specific
features in the QtJava spaces.
And in the QtZoo demo,
which we'll get to fairly soon,
you'll see that we have like
a display space with various
different elements in it.
And there's a new controller
architecture for the programmer
to describe interest in those
events and go forward from there.
The QtZoo application was
written primarily to focus on and
highlight some of the specific
technologies that QtJava provides.
Its main focus is in the areas of spaces.
It uses a compositor,
which will composite various different
elements like text and movies.
It uses mouse control handling so
that the user can interact with those.
And it uses the new event
handling structure that we have.
And that's the new event handling
structure that we have in the QtJava.
So with that,
I'd like to bring up Michael Hopkins.
He's from Developer Relations at Apple.
And he'll be talking about QtZoo.
Thank you.
Now the QTZoo application was
developed by myself and Levi Brown,
who's also here.
Stand up please, Levi.
We designed this primarily as a
learning tool to get people who
were unfamiliar with QuickTime for
Java to sort of experience the things
that QuickTime for Java is good for.
When most people think
about QuickTime for Java,
they associate QuickTime for Java with
QuickTime and therefore also with movies.
Everybody knows that QuickTime has
rich media presentation features,
support for various file system,
or excuse me, media formats.
But there are a lot of other really
cool things that QuickTime offers.
So we wanted to go ahead and introduce
and show how to use those various other
types of support and brand new features.
So what did we do with the Zoo project?
First of all,
it's designed as a kiosk application.
It's a representation of something
perhaps you might find in an actual
zoo at an informational booth.
It runs full screen.
And takes over the entire user interface.
This allows us to not only
customize the interface,
but really take control and only show
what we want to show and simplify it.
The first feature we wanted to
demonstrate was the ability to
do irregular region head testing.
We also have transitions.
We have a series of different regions
in the zoo that you can mouse over,
and they are not just squares.
The AWT, if you were just using Java,
you'd be able to do hit testing,
but not in the same manner where
we have very complex shapes that
you can mouse in and mouse over,
and I'll show that in the demo later.
We also have transitions between
various areas in the zoo.
We also wanted to show how to play sound,
and not just AU files
such as sun supports,
but various other types of sound files,
AU, MPEGs, etc.
We wanted to show how to play
movies and do custom controls.
Additionally, as I mentioned,
we do full screen mode.
Bless you.
We also finally show how to
do basic QuickTime drawing
operations to draw text.
So I'm going to show each one of
these features individually and
talk a little bit about them.
As I mentioned, Qt Java allows complex
region hit testing,
and you do this for free.
So as you can see in the tiger,
when you move the mouse over that region,
it automatically highlights.
Get that all for free,
no additional work needed.
Transitions.
Since QuickTime supports all the
standard types of transitions such
as wipes and iris in and outs and
fades and crossfades and dissolves,
we decided we'd show how to
take advantage of that feature.
So we have two different main pages,
and when you click from page to page,
there's a transitional
wipe between those two.
It's very easy to use and it looks great.
Adds that additional visual interest.
As you can hear the tiger growling,
we play sounds.
Sound playing is very easy.
Not only do you as a developer have to
not worry about the format of the sound,
but you also for free get
support for sounds contained
on the network somewhere,
either on a streaming
server or on an FTP server.
It doesn't matter to you as a
developer where that file is.
You can still use QuickTime for
Java in the same manner and
get that support for free.
Playing Movies.
Of course, everybody knows that
QuickTime gives you movie support.
As I mentioned, it gives you different
file type of support.
MPEG, as you heard in the keynote,
now we're going to be
supporting MPEG-1 and MPEG-2.
If you use QuickTime for Java when
those features are added to QuickTime,
you'll get that functionality for
free in your Java application.
Something that's really cool.
How many Java applications
can play DVD-quality movies?
Oops, excuse me.
And custom controls.
There's nothing wrong with the
controls that QuickTime gives you.
They're very nice.
However, if you have an application
where you want complete control,
you can use QuickTime for Java's custom
buttons to customize your interface.
And we've done that to
provide only a rewind,
play,
and stop button instead of allowing users
to have access to the entire controller.
Again, this is very easy.
Finally, we allow full screen mode.
Normal AWT windows do not
allow you to hide the menu bar,
but with QuickTime for Java,
you can do so.
Oh, and basic QuickDraw text.
Any QuickDraw routines,
not just text drawing, but move to,
line to, drawing shapes, drawing regions,
you can do that in QuickTime for Java.
So if you have a whole bunch of
old QuickDraw toolbox code and
you don't want to do AWT drawing,
you can do that in a QuickDraw graphics
context using QuickTime for Java.
Again, this works cross-platform
on Mac and Windows.
Now we're going to have a demo.
So as you can see,
all the media is being loaded now.
As I mentioned, we have full screen.
We can move around here
to the various animals.
You'll see how fast
this highlight occurs.
We're applying real-time transference
effects in a Java application very fast.
You can hear the sound of the elephant.
And you see the QuickTime transition
there between these two panes.
We have a movie playing in here.
These are all different types of medias
that are being drawn using QuickTime.
We have Photoshop files, JPEG files,
you can have TIFFs.
Again, anything that QuickTime supports.
Same code on your part,
but you get that support.
Custom controllers here to rewind, stop,
start the playing.
This updating is done
for you automatically.
You don't have to manage individual
images and refreshing those as the
user interacts with those controls.
So that's very powerful.
Again, we can see the transitions.
You also notice that it's very fast.
Do that in your
Java application using JMF.
And that's what I have.
So thank you very much, and back to you,
Bill.
The main focus of this, of course,
is that we're writing these
applications in a Java context.
We're in the QDZoo application,
we're making quite extensive use of the
QuickTime's capability as a media engine.
As Michael was saying,
we're using the transitions.
But all of the compositing
that's being done there,
the whole assemblage of that image
that you're seeing and the control
of the behavior and everything,
is all being done from Java code.
It's not just a movie that you've
sort of authored and distributed.
It's actually a running Java application.
And this is very much the kind of
thing that we're seeing with developers
who've been using our stuff currently,
that they're in some
kind of Java context,
and they're using QuickTime to give them
the kind of capabilities that they don't
get with the normal sets of classes.
classes that Java provides.
What I want to do now is go through
some of the products that have
been using QuickTime for Java.
The CineKit is an application
that is primarily focused
around authoring movies.
TV/Radio is a network-based radio,
and we saw a bit of that in
the QuickTime overview session.
We've also got the
Oracle Intermedia story,
and we'll talk a little bit
about how that's being done.
One thing I should actually say
about the Zoo application before
I forget is that the Zoo is broken
down into a set of tutorials.
There's, I think,
ten tutorials just to do different parts,
and that's actually
available on Apple's website.
We'll give you the URL at
the end of the session.
There's some comments,
documentation about each of
the examples and everything.
And the whole source code for that,
I think,
is also available at the website.
So CineKit.
CineKit's a tool that's been built
by a company called Expressto.
The URL is expresso.com.
They're a small company.
They've been working in university
contexts for quite a number of years.
They've been using
QuickTime for a long time.
They have a very unique set of
requirements that they wanted
from the use of QuickTime.
What they wanted to be able to do
was to make sure that they were able
to use QuickTime for a long time.
They wanted to be able to use
QuickTime for a long time.
What they wanted to be able to do was
to provide a different kind of metaphor
for people to create presentations.
They also deal with children, with youth,
as well as more sort of like
professors and lecturers and so forth.
They had originally started
off writing in C and C++,
but given the size of the company,
it was actually like
just a research project.
They wanted to go over into
Java because to get money,
financial support, to support their users
across different platforms,
they needed to be both on
Windows as well as Macintosh.
And QuickTime for Java gave them
that capability because they're a
QuickTime-centric tool and they can
access QuickTime directly through QtJava.
And of course,
they chose QuickTime because of the
extensive support that QuickTime has
for different media formats and
that was a very strong focus.
But they're a Java application
that's using all of the
Java application frameworks.
So if we can go to Demo Machine 3,
please.
So this is an example of
their application running.
They use like a sort of a storyboard
scene description type of language.
And what we're basically doing
here is authoring a movie.
And what I'm going to do is
to-- I've created a scene,
and I'm going to add a couple of shots.
And I can collapse the scene down,
and I can open it up.
Again, I can have several scenes,
and away we go like that.
So let's just grab a movie here.
They have this sort of
preview window here.
They have a sort of a movie,
All through editing kind of window
with in points and out points,
you can see a display of the
waveform that's in the movie here.
You can preview the movie
and all that kind of thing.
And I'm not going to do anything
there just for the moment.
Let's grab a picture here.
Hello.
I love demoing other people's products.
OK, so that's not working.
All right, can we go back to the slides,
please?
I'm not going to pursue that.
Basically the idea of that,
I don't know what I've done wrong,
it's probably something my fault there.
But basically the point about that is
that it's a cross-platform company.
They have the same product
on both Mac and Windows.
They've been in public
beta for a while now.
You can register with their beta program.
You can download their application.
It imports media,
all the different types of media
that QuickTime understands.
You can do media capturing
into the application.
And you can save all that
up and export it as a movie.
It's quite an interesting
full-featured set.
And if you go to their website,
you can sign up.
And they've had children using
this from like year five upwards.
And it's quite interesting.
The second company, which is quite a bit
bigger than the first one,
is Oracle.
Oracle have been, as you know,
a database company.
And they've been very
interested in getting into the
cataloging of media resources.
QuickTime is, as we know,
is a very large market in
terms of formats for media.
So they have this tool called InterMedia.
One of the things that Oracle has
been doing over the last couple of
years is moving their development
efforts into Java because of
their multi-platform deployment.
So InterMedia is a tool that they
developed in order to be able
to store media into a database,
but not just the media.
Media just in a database
isn't very useful.
You need to be able to annotate the
text and annotate the media and put
text fields into the database so you can
actually do searches on the media or get
back media from the database and so on.
So Oracle.com.
InterMedia is their URL.
And you can go up there and have a look.
The QD Java component of this is that
because they're a Java environment
in the annotation side of it,
they needed to access QuickTime and
to be able to pull information
out of QuickTime files from Java.
So they used QD Java.
The tool is not just a QuickTime tool,
although QuickTime is a very
strong part of what the tool does.
It also deals with other different
types of media and they have
a sort of a plug-in model to
do the annotation component.
of it and you can extend that
and provide your own custom
plug-ins for your own support,
or say you want to annotate
it in some different manner.
Some of the information
actually it pulls out.
It will pull out all of the user
data that is stored in the media,
like author, copyright, date.
It can also pull out things like
the particular encoding that
was used on a particular track.
It can also pull out the actual
text that's in the track.
It can pull out other descriptions
about the media that's in the movie.
One of the things that this does is
it gives you a very comprehensive
description of what's in that media file.
And because it's in the database,
it can be searched.
And you can access it from
even things like Sherlock.
You can use standard Internet web
search engines as well.
And in the demos that
I've seen Oracle do this,
they actually use the... I used
this at the developers conference
for Oracle last November.
You can type in a text,
go and find that text in the movie,
and you can stream the movie
straight from that place in the text.
You don't have to download
the whole movie or whatever.
You can just stream from that
particular location in the
movie where you found that text.
And they do that through using plug-ins
on the QuickTime streaming server.
Tim talked a little bit about
that in the overview and there
will be sessions covering that.
But there's a plug-in for the streaming
server that will interface to the
database and will use all of their
commands and everything to go and
stream directly from that location.
It's a very interesting technology and
I'd encourage you if this is something
that you do that you need to keep
assets of media and stuff around,
this is well worth exploring.
So I'd like to now bring up
a partner of Apple's really,
Eric Lemoine.
He works with a French company
called TV Radio.
Thanks.
So my name is Eric Lemoine and
I'm the CEO of Vincennes Quimaux.
We are a web agency based in Paris.
We are more than 100 people.
And last summer one of our new clients
came and the name of this company is
TVradio.com and these guys are owned by
the French broadcast company named TDF,
French Broadcast Company.
In fact,
it's just a French telecom behind.
Right now these guys have 95% of
market share in streaming radio
but over the regular network.
So they are broadcasting radios.
The project they asked us was
to broadcast 200 French radios
that are already done,
already client companies and
TV station by September 2000.
The objective was to propose
first a full service to radio,
to add a multimedia experience to
a radio service and synchronize
in real time the content with
the audio you're listening to,
to develop the project around a virtual
tuner and to sell records and tickets.
So all the service and feature we
developed around this tuner was first to
access to content based on flash movies,
to access to e-business,
to open our application to the web,
to have some internal search engine and
to have a dynamic update to the client.
Each time we are using the client we are
connecting to our server and updating the
client and sending some new Java class.
And we developed a complete
workflow production process.
We've done 200 Flash movies
for this project.
And all this project is
based on first a client.
The client is running on Java,
on MRG on the Mac and GRE on Windows.
And behind this there is
QuickTime for Java who was one of
the key technology in the project.
The back end is based on
WebObject and with WebObject we're
managing all the session with
the client and with the back end.
We are also using Oracle as our
database and Flash generator which
is one of the key technology to
produce every night some content or
to produce some content in real time.
And we are using the QuickTime TV network
to broadcast all this streaming.
I'm going to make a demo of this.
So in fact as soon as you install
your application you've got the
TV radio alias on your machine.
And then the first thing we
are connecting to our server.
So here we are back to France,
to the UUNet data center in Paris.
So, in fact,
I don't know what's going on.
A few minutes ago it was working well.
We are connecting to the server right now
and we are trying to have access to the
tuner and then we will have a synchronous
interface with the audio stream and we
are in real time connected to the radio
to know what is on air on this radio.
So we are able to push to the
users the name of the song,
the name of the artist,
the biography of the artist,
his best stuff,
and we are managing also some content
value information around the radio
and we are able to have access to the
frequencies to the contact listing
of all the speakers in this radio.
So if it's working, but it's not working,
you would have seen this.
Well, if the network is not working,
it's going to be really
hard to show you something.
By the end of the show,
maybe it will work.
So as soon as it's working,
we'll come back.
Thanks.
We actually saw some of
that demo in Tim's keynote,
the session before this one.
Of course, Mac OS X is a big part of this
conference and Apple's future direction.
Qt Java is available and
it is on your DP4 CDs.
It's working.
The SDK is not actually on the DP4 CDs.
You didn't quite get
that cleaned up in time,
but we will have that available from our
website to download by probably tomorrow.
The SDK examples basically run as is.
I know I've just said
the SDK is not available.
We've been running some shell
scripts and so forth to do that.
But what we're trying to get to with
the Qt Java SDK is that you don't
have to recompile your Java code.
If you've written
platform-neutral Java code,
you're not doing anything
based on a specific platform,
which most Java applications are.
The code should just run.
And that's what we're finding
with the samples that we're
getting up and running,
that they're just running the
same version that's actually
out on the Qt Java 4.1 SDK.
We're not even recompiling them.
We just bring the Java zip
files over and we run them.
There's still some unresolved issues that
we're working out both from the Java side
and from the QuickTime side and so forth.
Because we kind of sit in the middle
of these two technologies and that can
be an interesting experience sometimes.
So we basically consider Qt Java to
be at an alpha stage where kind
of the API is feature complete.
There's about half a dozen or so of the
SDK examples that actually run fine.
We've got various different
problems with others.
Some are cosmetic, some are more serious.
But we're on target to being
complete by this and we'll certainly
be in a very healthy state by
the beta of Mac OS X at New York.
The SDK examples run as is.
I know I've just said the
SDK examples run fine.
We've got various different
problems with others.
Some are cosmetic, some are more serious.
But we're on target to being
complete by this and we'll certainly
be in a very healthy state by
the beta of Mac OS X at New York.
If we can shift over to Demo Machine 1,
please.
I just thought I'd show you a couple
of the Qt Java on 10 examples.
So here we are on 10.
This is the movie controller example,
movie callbacks example in the SDK.
And what this example basically does
is opens a VR movie and then we've
installed a bunch of callbacks that
is Java code into the movie controller
that is saying to the movie controller,
"When something happens,
I want you to tell me." So some
of the callbacks that we've
got are drawing callbacks.
And all that we're doing down here in
the terminal window is doing like a
printout of the fact that like here
you see I've got a drawing command.
I've got some actions here.
And you can do specific things there.
You can have your Java code
responding to that.
If I do a click to another node,
you'll get callbacks,
enter or leave them.
nodes and all that kind of thing.
and you can install interceptor records,
QDVI, you can intercept actions like a
transition from one node to another
action and you can do whatever you'd like
to do at that point because the program
is handed back control to your Java code.
And that Java code will
run on Mac and Windows.
It's the same kind of deal.
And of course we're on OS X so I can
just kill the application which is
one of the nice features of OS X.
Maybe you don't want to be
doing that all the time.
This is another example in our SDK.
It's called run transitions example.
It's a little scary.
We've got a spaceship here.
It's X-Files kind of stuff.
But this is just basically to show
that we've got not just movies
playing in OS X but we've also
got the compositing stuff that
QD Java does that uses the underlying
compositing engine of QuickTime.
And we've got a couple of
background pictures here.
We've got the ripples being
applied to a picture of a water.
And we've got this sprite here
that's just being faded in and out.
And all of this assemblage
and all of the control,
the timing control and everything,
it has been done in the Java code.
It's not a movie at this point.
And I can also close things
in a more traditional manner.
Can we go to demo 2 machine please?
Given that we've got network problems,
I'm not sure that this is going to work,
but I'll try it anyway.
So I'm just going to click in that movie,
and then I'm going to
go back to the slides,
because I'm wetting your
appetite for what's to come.
So can we go back to the slides, please?
Okay, so the third part of this
talk is Java into QuickTime.
And what are we really
talking about here?
We're talking about the ability
to not be a Java application
that's using QuickTime content.
What we're talking about trying
to do here is to have Java code
that's in the context of QuickTime.
It's in a movie.
And it's Java code that's
going to be executed as a
result of something occurring,
whether it's a user or a user.
It's a user interaction or just
opening the movie or getting to a
certain time in the movie or so forth.
What this enables is for you to provide
as a developer custom actions to
provide custom tailored solutions to
your specific environment using a fully
featured language that Java is with
a full set of capabilities like URLs,
like network capabilities and so forth.
And of course we also support
Java's security model.
So we provide the
security features of Java.
Now there's a couple of different
ways that we could do this.
The alternatives that are before
us is the wide actions that
QuickTime already provides.
The other alternative would be to
have some kind of Java media track
where the media track itself was
your Java code that was controlling
everything that occurred in that track.
And you could actually
imagine a whole movie that was
completely controlled by Java.
So the Cutie Zoo example, for instance,
that could be delivered as a Java track
in a QuickTime movie and everything else
is just in control from your program.
On a related area to this,
there's been a lot of work in the
MPEG-4 committee on a couple of
different areas called BIFS and MPEG-J.
So BIFS stands for Binary Format for
Scenes and MPEG-J is Java in MPEG.
We'll talk a little bit more
about that a little later.
Okay, so for the Java wired actions,
what we decided to do is to
support QuickTime's existing
wired action architecture in
the custom action handler.
This is an existing
component in QuickTime.
It has a subtype of wire,
and for the Java wired actions,
the subtype of the component is Java.
The Java wide actions component
would be installed with QtJava.
So it would be able to, you know,
to be something that you could
rely on as being installed
when QtJava was installed.
It uses an open component action in
the movie and that's something that
you have to add with the custom action
handler to register the component,
have the component opened.
And then you attach the compiled
Java bytecodes to the particular
target that you want to be executing.
[Transcript missing]
To support that activity,
we're developing a Java-wide action,
which is an abstract class.
It will be in the Qt Java.
It has a number of methods that can
give you the context of when this
particular action has been fired.
So you'll be able to get things
like the movie that you're in,
the track that you're in in that movie,
and you'll also get an
abstract execute method,
and that's the part where
you basically put your code.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so I don't know if this is going to
completely work because we're having
some problems with the network,
but we'll give it a shot.
So this is a QuickTime movie,
and it has a Java-wide
action that's attached to the
background sprite of this movie.
And the background sprite of the
movie is just the static picture.
and I think we might be
going live on the web.
I'm not really sure.
Just give it a minute
to see if it'll come up.
What's happening with this
particular Java-wide action is that
it's attached to the background.
Any click on that background is
going to execute that wide action.
When the action first fires up,
If I open, so if I go back to here,
which was the thing, you see that what
you've got there is two,
three different pictures,
and you've got both a text track
and you've got a video track here.
And you can see a timestamp
here that's changing,
which is the time that I actually
clicked this movie to go and
get that image from a webcam,
which was the Reef camera at the moment.
Now if I close that
movie and open it again,
you'll notice that I've actually saved
the movie with the new content in it.
So the click that I just did,
which was at 5.18,
that has now been saved in the movie.
Now this is all being done for
you in the movie by the Java code.
I'm writing the movie file out,
and if I have a look
at the original movie,
you'll see that all I've got
here is a single sprite track.
And that sprite track has
just got actions added to it.
And then when I've gone out and
got to the image and so forth,
I've added a pick track,
which is that and the text track.
We're just basically authoring the movie
while the movie is alive and running.
This is just a very simple example that
we built up over the last week or so.
We're still in very
early stages with this.
But you can basically do anything
that you'd like to do within the
bounds and the constraints of the
kind of condition you're in at
runtime when you're trying to do it.
We've got some transparency
on the text there.
You can play back the
movie and it's saved,
etc.
Shall we go back to the slides, please?
Okay,
so we're in a prototype stage with this.
We're really just getting this working
and getting ahead to deploying this.
We've been operating a seeding list
for a couple of years or so now,
and we continue to support that list.
And we'll be seeding the Java-wide
action components and the Java classes
for it to developers on that
list as soon as we're ready to
do that in the next month or two.
And there'll be details at the end
of the talk that can describe to
you how to get onto that seeding.
So a couple of future directions.
We talked a little bit
about a Java media track.
This is a very interesting concept
if you want to be primarily some kind
of QuickTime movie and you want to
interact with QuickTime's media format,
but you want to actually have maybe some
more dynamic behavior that you can't
really get or that you want to be able
to do some very intricate client-server
interactions or whatever it is.
You might want to just control the whole
compositing yourself or just randomly
add tracks or add movies into it.
So something like the QT Zoo,
that could be re-embedded and
deployed as a QuickTime movie.
As it's very dependent on QuickTime,
that kind of makes a lot of sense and
it's a good distribution model for it.
With MPEG-4 and the BIFS,
the BIFS is a sort of a vermal type
audio and visual 3D model space.
It provides a complete sort
of 3D modeling area for you to
create interactive scenes for.
You can place audio at
different locations.
You can have objects moving in and out
and you can construct a whole scene.
Now when the MPEG-4 committee did this,
they took a couple of things that
they wanted to improve on with vermal.
Vermal was a textual based one
and the MPEG-4 specification
is a binary based one,
so it's a lot smaller.
It can be compressed also a lot
more and it's a lot better suited
for transmission over the web.
The other thing that they wanted to do
is to provide a much richer programmatic
model in accessing the scene.
And so they actually chose Java as
the primary means to do that.
There is a set of Java classes and a
guaranteed sort of Java VM as part of
this whole BIFS implementation in MPEG-4.
And some of the capability that
the Java classes that have been
provided by the MPEG-4 committee,
some of the capability
that they represent is your
ability at runtime to say,
"What kind of computer am I on?
What kind of resolution do I have?
What kind of network
connection am I going to get?
What are the characteristics?" You can
only know when someone opens this up.
So they've provided those APIs and
those controls in Java for you.
So you can do that,
then you can make decisions
at runtime about the kind
of media that you download.
You can even do your own pinging
using networking classes in Java to
really see what kind of network
performance you're getting if you
want to control that kind of stuff in
such a finite and intricate detail.
And this is very much the same kind
of thing as having a Java media
track in QuickTime in the sense
that your Java code controls it.
It's just that with MPEG-4 it's
formalized and it's a standard that you
don't have to just rely on a particular
vendor to support because there's a
lot of different vendors providing all
kinds of different MPEG-4 solutions.
And QuickTime is a very strong
part of that MPEG-4 story.
So who to contact?
We have a public list that's available
for developers for QuickTime for Java.
That's at list.apple.com.
For general developer information,
including the SDK and including the zoo
examples that Michael went over earlier,
we've got that URL there,
developapple.com slash
QuickTime slash QDJava.
If you're interested in getting an early
access to any of the seeding that we do,
we actually have an email that
you can email us at QDJava at
apple.com and you can get enrolled.
But before you email us to tell us
that you want to be in the seeding,
you must be a registered developer
with Apple for us to do that.
So I'd like to thank you all for
attending and we've got time for
Q&A if you've got some questions.
I'll leave these URLs up in
case you want to view them.
Oh, yeah,
I might try the TV radio thing again,
see if we can get that going.
Yeah.
Can we have demo station two up, please?
Hey.
So the rest are very .
I came from Paris for this,
so I hope it's going to work this time.
Basically, this application is
composed of two parts.
Here,
all this area is managing the stream.
Here, you can manage the sound.
We are expecting to have in
QuickTime for Java the Equalizer
feature coming really soon.
Here we have all the balance,
treble and so on, the credits also.
And here we are managing all the streams.
It's a pre-selection.
It's working just like
your player in your car.
It's just a long click to wait
for the pre-selection in memory.
And if you want to have
access to all our stations,
right now we have 40
stations in the tuner.
You just use this.
We are working, here it's just a
Flash Movie for the moment,
but we are working on a Java tuner
with a selection from style,
area in Paris or in France.
And so on.
And here you can choose the
radio you want to listen to.
We can close this.
And all this area is information
we are pushing to the user.
And this area basically is
information regarding the radio
and here regarding the artist.
And all this information are pushed
and synchronized with the radio,
with the program and with the music
on air at this time in the day.
At this time in this radio in Paris.
All this information I push to the user,
but we are able to pull,
the user is able to
pull some information.
For example, if you want to have
the frequencies of VFM,
this radio,
it can access through this Flash Movie to
all the friends and see where it
can get the frequency of this radio.
We can access to the contact
information in the radio.
For example, here we have all the list.
[Transcript missing]
And here you can have some information of
We're going to come back after with this.
And what else?
We have a small interface.
Here, all this information area is
synchronized with the music,
but we are able to push some
information regarding a special show.
For example, you have an artist on air,
which is speaking tonight at the radio.
You can say, "Okay,
this guy is coming tonight on the radio."
And we can have flash movies accessing.
All this information is a flash movie.
And all the radio are able to create by
themselves and manage all their content.
And they are able to say, "Okay,
during two hours,
we want this flash movie to be
here and to have another flash
movie behind in this area with
more details on the product,
on the show, on the concert,
on everything." So all the radios
are managing by themselves.
They are able to create by themselves
and manage all their content.
And they are able to say, "Okay,
during two hours,
we want this flash movie to be
here and to have another flash
movie behind in this area with
more details on the product,
on the show, on the concert,
on everything." And we provide
them a tool through the web with
some access using a web object.
And every night,
hundreds of flash movies are generated.
We have some connection errors.
And here we have a search engine.
We are able to search in our database.
For example,
if you're looking for information
on a radio or on an artist.
And we have a web search engine here,
Voila.
Voila is a search engine
from France Telecom.
And as soon as you make your research,
it's opening your web
browser and that's it.